hey guys Matt back from Bree salon
education comm I'm here with tip number
one of our 14 tips to become better at
haircutting and we're gonna start with
the comb and scissors so I'm holding up
this comb right now and you might be
thinking why would you use this for
haircutting I think the same thing why
would you use this for haircutting this
is something that in classes all over
the place anytime we're in a class
there's always somebody holding this
comb it's a tail comb it's made for
foiling I know that back back in the day
we did use this baby for hair cutting
but for now I would put this away the
reasons for that is this is good for
sectioning yes but the tension in this
comb is too tight for the most part most
of the tail combs have really tight
teeth so they're not going to help you
with haircutting they're going to pull
the hair too far from the scalp too far
out of where it lives and you're going
to get different calyx and different
things so let's get away from this comb
you want a full blown comb let's say
like this that has the tight teeth if
you need them but then a looser medium
teeth in the comb so the next comb that
you probably wouldn't want to use for a
typical haircut let's say a bob haircut
or something like that
even long layers this is just too big
some people love a big comb they love
holding it in their hand I personally
think that it's just too much if you're
trying to hold hair in your hand trying
to cut a bob take clean sections it's
just going to get in the way so try to
get more comfortable using a smaller
comb so let's talk about three different
combs that I love to use I love this
comb um for me and I can't even tell you
where to get this comb because honestly
I don't even know where this comb came
from it's my favorite comb though ever
and the reason I like it and you can
find combs like it it has wide teeth all
the way through the reason I like that
is because I like it for dry hair
cutting when you're cutting dry hair if
you use something with too tight a teeth
you can't get through the hair and it
makes the hair really staticky so this
is a nice smooth comb works its way
through and I can cut dry hair with it
most of time I like it for scissor over
comb on guys too as well because a
little bit less tension it runs through
it quickly so this is a good comb I like
that find find a comb with wide teeth
for dry hair cutting then weave our
wires part comb I love these combs
because of the grip that they give the
hair they have a nice little tooth in
the front they help you take clean
sections out so if you want to get rid
of that tail comb this might be the way
to go because it helps you make that
section has the medium teeth but they
still give good tension so as I'm going
through and I'm trying to cut a bob or
any type of haircut then it gives me the
right tension that I need and it's not
too much tension for the haircut so
these two combs are very similar but one
is a little bit smaller so if I'm trying
to get into tighter spaces or work
closer to a hairline or something like
that I love having a smaller comb so I
usually work with three different combs
most people have their favorite comb and
they never switch out I personally think
you should have a few of them the comb
is the tool it's like having a
screwdriver Phillips in straight head
you know you have to have many options
because there's different situations
that the the comb is going to work for
now let's talk about scissors we have a
few different types the acro type c2
we've just done a review on it so check
it out on our YouTube page this is my
go-to scissor because it fits it works
in every situation it uses a soft metal
so you've got to know your scissors and
what they do the soft metal is going to
cut a straighter line easier and a
harder line the saw are the harder
metals are going to push the hair a
little bit better for dry cutting
different things like that we have our
blacksmith fit this is a six-inch
scissor you'll see that a little bit
different in size I like this for doing
scissor over comb men's work I love this
scissor for that so you know check out
our review on that as well on YouTube
then we have a thinning scissor or a
softening shear whatever you like to say
just make sure with this this is not
correcting a haircut if you see bumps
and movement within the haircut it's
this is not the tool that you get out to
fix that that's not fixing a haircut
it's not helping you be better at your
work this is something you can use just
to add a little bit of texture
take out a little bit of weight maybe
you're working through a fringe and you
want to lighten it up a bit just pull
this out but don't take this out to fix
things that's the biggest thing so I
hope this tip helped this is tip number
one we got many to go
so check out tip number two we're going
to show you tomorrow how to cut with
just moving one blade hope this guy's
helped you guys subscribe to us on our
Channel we'll see it the next
yeah
you